7-segment displays are great we don't
see them as much in electronics these
days because screens are a lot cheaper
than they used to be but these used to
be everywhere from clocks to supermarket
checkouts to calculators to slot
machines here they're being used as part
of the mega processor at the Center for
computing history in Cambridge this is
the clock speed that the whole system is
running at the 7-segment displays are a
really clever bit of design 7 is the
minimum number of segments required to
show every number using straight lines
it doesn't matter that the 4 isn't
actually how most people write a number
4 it's close enough that we've all just
got used to it and 7 segments plus a
decimal point means that there are eight
lights here to turn on or off which is
convenient Computers like working with
eights there are eight bits in a byte so
you can store the state of those lights
in just one byte of memory and you can
use these for some letters too you could
show the word error or even base 16
numbers but there's no way you can write
an M or a W on this display so here is a
cold question for you what is the
longest English word that you can write
on a seven segment display
[Music]
I love questions like this because there
are so many ways to approach them I'm
gonna give one solution here because
that's the way I want to tell the story
but I can think of a couple of others
just off the top of my head and there
will be a dozen more that I haven't
thought of or maybe couldn't even think
of to start off we need a dictionary
unfortunately here the work has been
done for us there is a public domain
list of English words available put the
link in the description now this is not
a perfect list right at the top there
are two different spellings of ah and
I'm really not sure either of those
should count but the list is good enough
for our purposes we can manually filter
it later if there are any strange
results now I'm going to code this in
JavaScript using node not the best
language but it's not bad for beginners
and importantly it's easy for me to
explain first we're gonna add a bit of
boilerplate code just stop stuff to get
it working did I know all that code off
by heart no of course not I googled who
derive from file him node and I adapted
some of the results this is basically
how everyone codes stuff like that don't
ever be afraid that you're not a real
programmer because you still look stuff
up the important part of our programming
is not remembering exact words or syntax
it is breaking down a problem working
out how to solve it and then fixing all
the inevitable bugs in your solution
it's about holding lots of complicated
connections in your head not the exact
magic words that you need this one time
I still forget which order to put basic
stuff in sometimes anyway
the first line loads in the bits of node
that deal with reading and writing files
and the next line loads the entire
dictionary into a single long string
called words the next line converts a
single string into an array a long list
of smaller strings based on where the
newline characters are and now we have
an array of all the words in the English
language basically just a long list of
strings let's see how long that array is
by turning the console to output the
arrays length okay more than 370
thousand words each one a separate item
in that array called words next problem
we need to filter that list and remove
any words the newsletters that we can't
display with seven seconds which gives
us an interesting design problem which
letters can't we display now I'm
fancy graphics here rather than actual
7-segment displays but for extra credit
you can try and figure out the
after-effects expressions that I use to
make these letters A through F are easy
there's almost a standard for those but
G is difficult we can't use the obvious
pattern because that's a six or a nine
if it's a lowercase and if we use an
alternate pattern for it it's not really
a G it's a C with aspirations but be
fair if any of those patterns appear at
the start of a word line drawn no one's
gonna look at it and go I'll SiC Sol but
I'm gonna make the call that we don't
allow it I think I is all right though
like that's clearly an hi it's not like
the half-ass G which sort of look kind
of like a see it's clear I mean I don't
care that I'm not applying strict rules
here I'm just going on what feels right
and if you disagree you can fix it in
your version other letters that I'm
ruling out K just can't be done requires
a diagonal M I've seen displayed like
this before but no not having it n is
borderline but I'm going to allow it
because there's nothing else it could be
Q is out that is just a 9r I will allow
if it's a lowercase s is okay same
reasons as I but there's no way to do V
or W or X and as for Z no it needs the
diagonals not having it here's our
alphabet then 18 letters left eight
disallowed so actually more than i'm
expected left in there and i'm gonna
cheat i know this is called the basics
but doing this a long way would be
really dull so i'm gonna put those
disallowed letters into something called
a regular expression or regex or red x
whichever those slashes indicate that
it's a regex and whatever's inside those
slashes is like a text that a string can
match against so this regex would match
any word with an accident whether that x
is start or middle or end as long as
there's necks somewhere in the string it
passes that test if we put all our
disallowed letters in then surround them
with square brackets so the treat is a
class this regex will match any string
any word with any of those letters
anywhere in it if a string matches this
we cannot use it regular expressions are
a heck of a lot more complicated than
this and they can boggle even
experienced programmers minds but using
one here will save me about five minutes
of really dull script later on the good
news is we can now just use the function
match
to test a string against this regular
expression which I'm calling bad letters
and it'll tell us whether there are any
bad letters in there so how do we filter
theory one of the important trade-offs
here is between code that is fast and
code that everyone can understand this
is not going to be an efficient and fast
approach but because we're running it on
a modern PC at the command line and we
don't bind waiting a fraction of a
second after telling it to go it's no
big deal
it's more important that I can show the
code and explain it and look at it again
later and understand it but imagine if
something like this had to be run on the
scale of youtube or google running
millions or billions of times a day
every minor improvement you could make
would be worth it at some point I should
do a video about Big O notation but now
is not the time here where we're just
writing code to find the answer to one
simple question
don't worry about it sure there are more
elegant solutions but this is going to
be easy to explain I'm gonna declare an
empty string longest acceptable word and
then I'm gonna tell the code to start
testing every word in the array this
line will run the code in between those
brackets once for each word on each run
from this variable test word will be the
next word in the list first question is
the word we're looking at shorter or the
same length as the current longest
acceptable word if it is then we can
just ignore it we know it's not longer
it's of no use to us and we can just say
continue that continued skips the rest
of the loop kicks us back to the start
with the next word
some people hate continue they think it
shouldn't be used anywhere because it
can cause confusion and yeah it can
but I reckon for things like this that's
fine anyway this will save a lot of
processing time because after the first
few words we're not even gonna bother to
analyze the short ones we'll just ignore
them so let's say we've got to this
point in the code it's a new longer
possible word is it acceptable here we
can use our regular expression from
earlier does the word match our test for
bad letters if it does it's not
acceptable ignore it ignore the rest of
loop continue on to the next word in the
list but if it's past both of those
tests if we've got to this point then we
know our word is longer than anything
we've accepted before and it has no bad
letters in it so we change the longest
acceptable word to be our new word
and we start over again with the next
one in the array and when we're done
longest acceptable word will be the
longest acceptable word we tell the code
to write that out and the result is
that's that's actually the longest word
in the list anyway you know what I'm
gonna roll out I and oh they are just
numbers with aspirations fortunately we
have made the code easy to edit so we
can just make that change and sure fine
that'll do the lesson here I guess is
that sometimes you might write code to
find something out and the answer is
really unsatisfying of course there is
one thing we're missing here our test
was only checking for words longer than
the current acceptable one what happens
if there was another exceptional word of
the same length we'd have ignored it
there could be multiple correct answers
but I'll leave checking that out to you
thank you very much to the Center for
computing history in Cambridge for
lending me their space and their mega
processor thank you also to all my
proofreading team who were made sure I
got the script right